Here is what I was saying
about Non-Valid Characters.
Well, I think just something to keep
in mind is just try not to use invalid
characters as property names.
You know if you really have to do it fine,
but
this is not a very good naming here
on this line try to avoid that,
but anything like this right if
you put puts on it its fine.
Similarly in the object
literal notation you need
to put around bolt member or
save before we had to but
if you using non valid
characters then you have to.
And then for
the zero here there's another thing that
makes it seem like an array a special but
it's not you can set zero
property on an object right.
Oops.
That shouldn't be too surprising but
it makes it seem unusual
because we don't put
the quotes around the brackets and
in this context,
with the bracket you can put anything
that can be evaluated actually.
And so you can say like two plus two.
Stuff like that.
So that's why it's seeing this
as something that needs to be
evaluated rather than something
that needs to be coarsed
directly into a string kind
of like a variable name.
Not that a variable name is a string,
Okay, awesome,
any questions, No?
>> Questions in the chat.
>> There's a question in the chat?
>> Yeah this person quote or
in brackets Oct zero evaluate
to an array method or
an index position of that array.
>> So the question is if.
>> The answer is the value of
the Zero index of that array.
>> Yeah, I just wanted to write it out.
>> Yeah, for it.
>> So the question was,
What does this evaluate to?
And the answer is that it doesn't call so
when we say an array method,
what I'm talking about are functions
that are on your array,
such as .push Right?
.pop, things like that.
That's an array method and
we know it's a method because
look we need to put parentheses
next to it versus a property
such as the length property which
we do not need to call because it
is not a function Yeah, cool.
And if you're interested in like
deep diving in this kinda thing,
the first version of this course,
has a lot of exercises on like
implementing this kinda stuff like
an array with a dot length property
without using an array, right we use
an objects and things like that.
So that's kinda fun.
So, if this is cool to you,
then I recommend doing that awesome.
>> In one of the examples
you put up there,
you had a an array then you
had a type of equals array.
Is there ever an example that is true?
>> No.
Yeah, but if you do want to
check if something is an array,
which you will later on when we
start implementing each map,
you can use array.isarray,
then you can pass the array.
That's a traditional one.
Yep.
>> Can you pass in a function
as the index of that array?
>> So when you say index that implies as.
>> A key
>> As a key.
>> Like a brackets function.
>> I mean, you could.
So the question is,
can you do this, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And it's just gonna like
string of phi that function.
So we can look at the key.
So this is going to return all
of the keys of the object.
I just wanna get the very first one and
hopefully this works and
I'm gonna do the type of and
it's a string.
So just to clarify,
that's what it's returning.
So you're putting it in the brackets,
it's just string a fIying it.
So you can't call this function later,
right?
And because of this weird functionality
Have it string of fIying.
And it could string
a file in different ways.
I don't recommend doing this but
for like fancies.
Yeah, you can,
>> As long as it returns the string,
you could wrap it in
a function expression and then
>> Yeah, if you call the function,
then yeah, that's different.
So we can Wrap it.
And then call it.
Yeah, you guys following.
So I wrote out a function.
I defined it.
I wrapped it in parentheses,
cuz we're gonna immediately invoke it and
it's an anonymous function.
And this function is gonna return 3, so
these brackets are gonna
evaluate this line.
And so you can see Now it's 3.
Not the most useful
thing in the world but,
maybe I've never had idea
>> Sometimes you have to call out to
a function to grab the idea of something,
right?
>> Yeah, I guess if you're like yeah
>> Maybe
>> Maybe Yeah,
I've never had to do anything like that,
but I could, maybe,
there are probably better ways to
write that, so that's more readable.
>> Probably.
>> Yeah, cuz a lot of people just like
maybe you guys didn't know this before
I told you this,
a lot of people don't know this.
And you don't wanna just throw craziness
at people when they're reading your code,
just as a rule of thumb.
I try to keep it, to the point and
don't get too fancy,
if you're the kind of person who likes
to take it to the edge and you'll really
like functional programming cuz there's
like a whole cult of people who are just
like always pushing it to the edge and
seeing how many less lines of code.
They can care less characters,
they can do the same thing only people in
the cool kids club can
understand what they're doing.
And I'm not part of that club and
I'm not trying to join but maybe you are.
Maybe you wanna go through like the hazing
of it and have that experience.
Maybe.
Awesome.
These are great questions,
one more question.
What's my next slide?
Okay, one more question and
we're gonna jump to exercise.
>> One question I have, earlier you said
something about, we'll throw out a you've
been talking about just the similarities
between like arrays and objects.
So then what is the difference?
>> Yeah, it's a good question.
So, an array is a special
kind of object and
they have really the most special thing
about an array is the dot length property,
which a property that is computed
as you add numerical indices.
Numerical indices are different
than properties on an array,
because an array captures that and
will increment the length.
Right?
So if you say,
do we still have our y in here?
Yeah so if you say y,
y.length it's one but
if we say Y.Hello equals goodbye,
can you guys see that at the bottom?
Y.length is still one.
So there's a special behavior here for
arrays around it's numerical indices.
So any numbering
>> Y is numerical indices and
having the length change.
>> What's that?
>> Can we see a demo of adding numerical
indices and seeing the length change?
>> Yeah, so we can add, for
example, an interesting
thing that happens as if we have y,
so length 1, right?
We have one value in there, true.
Let's set the tenth one to false.
And then we have a bunch of empty ones and
let's see what the length is.
Yeah, so there's special behavior
around those numerical indices,
and there are methods that you can
use to take advantage of this.
So some cool ones are like reverse.
So the cool thing about having numerical
indices is that they're ordered.
And when things are ordered,
you can reverse them with an object,
we don't really have any such order.
So for things like sorting and
the order and
what else is interesting about an array
that we can't do with an object?
It's a lot easier to loop through
an array isn't an object as well.
Yeah.
>> Can you open up that object to see-
>> This one?
>> Yeah, whether its just
>> Yeah.
So also be careful when you expect
the chrome developer tools to print out,
this is just a representation
of the array, right?
It probably looks very different in memory
or it definitely looks very different in
memory and some different developer tools,
and different versions of
chrome developer, tools will
actually print out different things.
So just be careful if you see variance in
what a console dot log is showing you.
It's not because there's no necessarily
because it's a different behavior.
Sometimes, some developer tools
will hide these properties.
The only sort of show
the numerical indices.
So you'd have to check that explicitly.
Like y.hello and it will still return
something but for whatever reason,
when it's representing it in the console,
it just throws it out.
So I think even when I first taught this
course that I had to
prove that it was there.
I couldn't just print it out and
show it was there.
So that was just a few years ago.
>> Is [COUGH] Giving an array object
to property Is that uncommon to do.
>> To give an array.
>> Yeah so for
instance when you gave assign the property
goodbye is that uncommon
to attach that to an array?
>> In application level code You
typically don't do stuff like this, but
in libraries and stuff, it happens a lot.
But it's important to know this just so
you understand that
the rules are consistent,
that arrays are objects, right?
So that's why I use it as an example.